Antavo Source documentation (#7275)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/connections/sources/catalog/cloud-apps/antavo/index.md

> ```
> title: Antavo Source
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
title: Antavo Source
id: WXNgKpZMsd
---
```

Author: hi @tcgilbert 

this is now updated, please check

## Events

Antavo syncs two main types of events to Segment: Profile Updates and Loyalty Events. Profile Updates are sent as Segment Identify events, while Loyalty Events are sent as Segment Track events.

Both event types include a `userId`, which can be configured in Antavo. You can designate any customer attribute as the "external customer ID" to use as the Segment `userId`.

### Profile updates

Profile Updates occur when a customer attribute, added to the Antavo **Customer field sync**, updates. Customer attributes are included in the traits object.

```
{
  "traits": {
    "first_name": "New",
    "last_name": "Name",
  },
  "userId": "antavo-customer-id",
  "timestamp": "2024-11-26T15:19:14.000Z",
  "type": "identify",
}
```

### Loyalty events

Loyalty Events occur when a built-in or custom event, added to the Antavo Event sync, is triggered. The event data is then sent to the Segment Antavo Source. Event properties are included in the properties object.

```
{
  "properties": {
    "points": 5000
    },
  "type": "track",
  "event": "point_add",
  "userId": "antavo-customer-id",
  "timestamp": "2024-11-26T15:15:49.000Z",
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ### Integrations Object

Antavo automatically filters data from being sent to Salesforce destinations ([Salesforce (Actions)](/docs/connections/destinations/catalog/actions-salesforce), [Salesforce Marketing Cloud (Actions)](/docs/connections/destinations/catalog/actions-salesforce-marketing-cloud)) and the [Antavo](/docs/connections/destinations/catalog/antavo) destination. This is achieved by adding these destinations to the [Integrations object](/docs/guides/filtering-data/#filtering-with-the-integrations-object) in the event payloads. Since Antavo has a dedicated Salesforce integration, this filtering helps prevent infinite loops.

Author: hi @tcgilbert !

thanks for the suggestion! we'll apply it shortly

quick note: the links seems to be pointing to `github.com` domain (throwing 404s), but I'm guessing it should be to `segment.com` instead

Author: Hi @tcgilbert !

Updated this section, please check!

2. Search for "Antavo" in the Sources Catalog, select Antavo, and click Add Source.
3. On the next screen, you can name the Source (e.g. Antavo or Loyalty Engine).
   1. The name is used as a label in the Segment app, and Segment creates a related schema name in your warehouse.
   2. The name can be anything, but we recommend using something that reflects the source and distinguishes amongst your environments.
4. Click Add Source to save your settings.
5. Copy the Write key from the Segment UI.
6. Log into your Antavo account.
7. Select Twilio Segment integration in Antavo platform.

   ![Enable Twilio Segment extension](images/1-antavo-enable_segment_extension.png)
8. Insert the Segment write key and select which attribute contains the userID that will be used as User identifier when syncing events.

   ![Configure Twilio Segment extension](images/2-antavo-configure_segment_extension.png)
9. Go to the Outbound settings page and select:
   - The events you want to sync to Segment.
   - The customer attribute updates you want to sync to Segment.

   ![Configure event synchronization](images/3-antavo-configure_event_sync.png)

> ## Events
> 
> Two main event types are synced into Segment: Profile updates and loyalty events.  
> Both event types require userID, which can be selected in Antavo.  
> Any customer attribute in Antavo can be selected as "external customer ID".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Events

Antavo syncs two main types of events to Segment: Profile Updates and Loyalty Events. Profile Updates are sent as Segment Identify events, while Loyalty Events are sent as Segment Track events.

Both event types include a `userId`, which can be configured in Antavo. You can designate any customer attribute as the "external customer ID" to use as the Segment `userId`.
```

Author: hi @tcgilbert 

thanks, this is now applied

> ### Profile updates
> 
> This event happens when a customer attribute - added to the **Customer field sync** - changes.
> - Antavo always includes the `userId`.
> - Customer attributes are included in `traits` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Profile updates

Profile Updates occur when a customer attribute, added to the Antavo **Customer field sync***, updates. Customer attributes are included in the traits object.
```

Author: hi @tcgilbert 

thanks for the suggestion, this is now applied

```
{
  "traits": {
    "first_name": "New",
    "last_name": "Name",
  },
  "userId": "antavo-customer-id",
  "timestamp": "2024-11-26T15:19:14.000Z",
  "type": "identify",
}
```

> ### Loyalty events
> 
> When a built-in or custom loyalty event - added to the **Event sync** - happens, event data are streamlined to the Antavo Source.
> - Antavo always includes the `userId`.
> - Event properties are included in `properties` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Loyalty events

Loyalty Events occur when a built-in or custom event, added to the Antavo Event sync, is triggered. The event data is then sent to the Segment Antavo Source. Event properties are included in the properties object.
```

Reviewer: @bbantavo What are the different event names a customer can expect to be sent into Segment? Is there a standard list of events, or is this all configured in a custom way by the user? If there is a standardized list, we ask that partner provide a table of the expected events: 

e.g., 

```
| Event Name         | Description                           |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------- |
| Email Sent         | Email was sent successfully           |
| Email Opened       | Prospect opened the email             | 
| Link Clicked       | Prospect clicked the tracking link    | 
| Email Replied      | Prospect replied to email sent        | 
| Email Bounced      | Email servers rejected the email      | 
| Email Unsubscribed | Prospect clicked the unsubscribe link | 
```

Author: Hi @tcgilbert 

Our Source integration requires our clients to configure which events they want to sync to Segment. By default no event is synced.

Our clients have a start set of built-in events which are fully customizable, and they also have the ability the define custom events.

We can provide information about our built-in events, but their meaning could differ from client to client.
